developer-blog-nuzlocke-tracker-part-three-promotion.md, before:

## Dev Log: Nuzlocke Tracker — Part Three — Promotion

As promised this is the third part where I worked on how to promote the app.

What motivated me most is knowing that people are using my app, so getting this app in the hands of other people was critical. Truth be told I’m a complete novice when it comes to promoting an app, however, I decided to dive headfirst.

## Where to?

I knew that I would have to begin to research SEO. Unfortunately from my research, I found out that React apps are typically at a disadvantage when it comes to SEO. This is because the crawlers that index the page look through the HTML however the HTML of a React app is dynamically generated.

There are several solutions to this such as SSG-type frameworks like Next.js or Gatsby. I decided to deploy with Netlify because they offer a plugin precisely to generate a SPA (such as React) to further help with crawlers. This would help initially with it appearing in searches.

Also, I figured I would show this to various Nuzlocke communities. I focused my efforts on Reddit as there is a fairly active community around Nuzlocking.

This is the original post. It was very successful! Not only was it very well received, but I also received a ton of feedback to make the app considerably better.

I also posted it to other Nuzlocke forums and various discord communities!

## The follow-up

As I continued to iterate over the app I posted it several times over the course of the past couple of months to show and detail the updates.

Every thread was fairly well-received but none of them were as successful as the first, however, every single time I gained critical insight into bugs and features people would appreciate.

## SEO

As for how the SEO went after all the posts, it was a mixed bag. For Google, it’s been a real struggle to get to the top page, although a majority of the links ahead of me seem to be illegitimate backlinks.

However, on bing and several other search engines, I am consistently within the top ten. Researching on how to exactly boost up the position on a google search definitely requires more research.

That’s it for now! I will most likely make another more detailed post on how to boost SEO from all the research I did on React apps.

Commit message:

Added initial frontmatter to blog posts

developer-blog-nuzlocke-tracker-part-three-promotion.md, after:

---
title: Dev Log Nuzlocke Tracker — React Project Structure
date: 2021-08-08
description: First in the series of a developer blog chronicling my experience creating a React app. In this part I explain the project and the folder structure.
categories:
    - react
    - devlog
---

## Dev Log: Nuzlocke Tracker — Part Three — Promotion

As promised this is the third part where I worked on how to promote the app.

What motivated me most is knowing that people are using my app, so getting this app in the hands of other people was critical. Truth be told I’m a complete novice when it comes to promoting an app, however, I decided to dive headfirst.

## Where to?

I knew that I would have to begin to research SEO. Unfortunately from my research, I found out that React apps are typically at a disadvantage when it comes to SEO. This is because the crawlers that index the page look through the HTML however the HTML of a React app is dynamically generated.

There are several solutions to this such as SSG-type frameworks like Next.js or Gatsby. I decided to deploy with Netlify because they offer a plugin precisely to generate a SPA (such as React) to further help with crawlers. This would help initially with it appearing in searches.

Also, I figured I would show this to various Nuzlocke communities. I focused my efforts on Reddit as there is a fairly active community around Nuzlocking.

This is the original post. It was very successful! Not only was it very well received, but I also received a ton of feedback to make the app considerably better.

I also posted it to other Nuzlocke forums and various discord communities!

## The follow-up

As I continued to iterate over the app I posted it several times over the course of the past couple of months to show and detail the updates.

Every thread was fairly well-received but none of them were as successful as the first, however, every single time I gained critical insight into bugs and features people would appreciate.

## SEO

As for how the SEO went after all the posts, it was a mixed bag. For Google, it’s been a real struggle to get to the top page, although a majority of the links ahead of me seem to be illegitimate backlinks.

However, on bing and several other search engines, I am consistently within the top ten. Researching on how to exactly boost up the position on a google search definitely requires more research.

That’s it for now! I will most likely make another more detailed post on how to boost SEO from all the research I did on React apps.
